How to Run This Project on a New System
Follow these instructions exactly to get the project running.

1. Prerequisites
Before you start, make sure your new system has:

Python 3.8 or newer: You can download it from python.org.

Important: During installation, make sure to check the box that says "Add Python to PATH".

A Webcam: For gesture control.

A Microphone: For voice control.

2. Get Your Project Files
You need to get your three Python files (main.py, gesture_engine.py, voice_engine.py) onto the new system.

If your project is on GitHub:

Install Git from git-scm.com.

Open Command Prompt (CMD) or PowerShell.

Clone the repository (replace with your actual URL):

Bash

git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-project-name.git
Navigate into the folder:

Bash

cd your-project-name
If you have the files in a ZIP folder:

Copy the ZIP folder to the new system.

Right-click the ZIP and select "Extract All...".

Open Command Prompt (CMD) or PowerShell.

Navigate into the extracted folder:

Bash

cd path\to\your-project-folder
3. Create the requirements.txt File
Inside your project folder (where main.py is), create a new file named requirements.txt and paste the following text into it exactly.

Plaintext

opencv-python
mediapipe
pyautogui
SpeechRecognition
pycaw
screen-brightness-control
pyaudio
comtypes
protobuf
4. Set Up the Virtual Environment & Install Libraries
This is the most important part. It creates a clean, isolated space for your project's libraries.

Open your terminal (CMD or PowerShell) inside your project folder.

Create a virtual environment named venv:

Bash

python -m venv venv
Activate the virtual environment:

Bash

venv\Scripts\activate
(You'll know it's active because your terminal prompt will change to show (venv) at the beginning).

Install all the libraries from your requirements.txt file:

Bash

pip install -r requirements.txt
This will take a minute or two as it downloads and installs all the necessary packages.

5. Run Your Project
Now that everything is installed, you can run your application.

Make sure your virtual environment is still active (you see (venv) in the prompt).

Run the main.py script:

Bash

python main.py
Your gesture window should appear, and the terminal will show the voice assistant is "calibrating." The project is now running.

To run it again in the future: You only need to do steps 1-4 one time. From now on, just open a terminal in your project folder and run these two commands:

venv\Scripts\activate (to turn on the environment)

python main.py (to start the program)
